>> Brian Holt: Now, go to Action Creators.
The first thing that I wanna do
here is import ADD_API_DATA.
I'm gonna export another function called
addAPIdata,
>> Brian Holt: It's
going to take an apiData,
which is going to be of type Show, right?
>> Brian Holt: And then in here we
are going to return a well formed
action object,
which is going to be of type,
ADD_API_DATA and payload: apiData.
>> Brian Holt: So in particular here,
we're actually not gonna be calling
ADD_ API_DATA outside of this
particular function, right?
We're actually gonna handle this
inside of action creators, but
it's a good idea to export it anyway.
Say, for example, you got API data,
maybe from local storage, right?
For example,
you could use this add API data
action to kind of load it from
different sources, right?
This is going to be useful other places
other than just stuff coming back
from the API.
That's why it's good to do that.
This is also good because
now this is testable, right?
So now I can import it into my
test suite and test it, and
it's a good idea to test action creators.
In fact, we're going to do it.
So, cool, okay.
So now, Everything's all ready for
us to start adding action, or
API datas into our readout store.
Now we wanna tackle the problem of
making that asynchronous
request inside of a thunk.
So what we're gonna do now is we're
going to export another function
called get API details.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
this is going to take in an imdbID,
which is going to be a string,
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
Now these action creators
always return objects, right?
That's kind of the contract there.
However, this is going to return a thunk,
right?
And so what is a thunk?
A thunk is a function.
It kind of throws people off, but remember
that we are dispatching this function into
the Redac store and
then redac is going to say cool.
This is a deferred action so
something is going to come from this.
I'm going to call this function and
wait for it to dispatch, okay?
So that's why here you're
gonna say return function.
So it's gonna be a function that
has dispatch injected into it,
which is gonna be a function.
>> Brian Holt: So that's why
we're returning a function here.
>> Brian Holt: And then in here we're just
gonna do pretty much what we were doing
inside of details.
We're just gonna make
our axios request here.
In fact you need to go
import axios at the top.
Import axios from axios.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then we're gonna say axios.get.
And this is gonna go
to http://localhost:3000/,
and we're just gonna put that
imdb id right there, okay.
And then we're gonna say .then,
thine, .then, response.
>> Brian Holt: And the response is gonna
be something that the API gave back to us.
All we're gonna do at this point is now
we're gonna use this dispatch function,
which Redux gives you to
dispatch an action, right?
So this where the thunk is resolving and
finally giving out an action.
So it's gonna say
dispatch(addAPIData(response.dat)).
>> Brian Holt: Then, as always is the case
with an API, it's usually a good idea
to have the catch statement at the end
just in case something goes wrong.
It's gonna be an error, and here,
I just say console.error so
that it doesn't get dropped on the floor.
axios error, error.
It's gonna warn here, it's gonna say,
hey I don't like console.log,
it's going down to production, but for me,
this is useful to have as a developer.
So I'm just gonna say, hey ESLint,
go ahead and shut up about it.
>> Brian Holt: So we're just saying, hey,
disable the console warning just for
this particular line.
>> Brian Holt: So to recap again,
this is a thunk, this particular piece,
this function, that gets returned here?
That's the thunk right?
The thunk function is going
to be invoked by redux right?
The redux thunk thing that middle
ware that we put in there,
it's going to inject this
dispatch function to say cool.
Go do whatever you need to do and
call me back whenever you have
the action that you want to do, right?
So what we do is we go to our API via
axios and once it resolves it then says
cool, now I have the action
data that I want to dispatch.
So I call them dispatch,
with add API data which gives me back
a real action object which
then gets passed into Redux.
So this is how you do
asynchronous code with Redux.
So I would say thunks are the easiest way.
I don't wanna say easiest, maybe simplest,
there's just not a lot to it,
it's just a call back, right?
But there are other ways to do this.
You can dispatch promises,
with Redux promises.
Observables with Redux observables.
And generators with Redux saga, and I
would say those are the most common ones.
>> Speaker 2: There´s a bunch
of debating going on about-
>> Brian Holt: Which one is the best-
>> Speaker 2: Redux.
The whole fact that you have tons
of actions and how the scales.
Whether or
not someone like Facebook is using Redux
across-
>> Brian Holt: I assert
pretty unequivocally that this does scale,
right?
So right now if you go
to our redux´s file,
we have all of our reducers living in one
file, typically in a large application.
You´re gonna separate reducers into
separate files, but when you´re using
combined reducers, like this,
this one reducer owns API data, right?
It owns that one particular
piece of the state tree, and
it has no concept of search team for
example, right?
So the fact that these are siloed from
each other is why this scales, right?
If you were worrying about
every single object and
every single reducer, that gets unruly.
Especially when you start getting
50 things in your reduct store,
but the fact that these are so
siloed from each other, I can keep them
in separate parts of my application.
And they can be tested individually,
that's why this scales, for sure.
I confidently assert that this scales.
>> Speaker 2: And then,
what about adding typings to, say,
some of the things you're returning and
whatnot, to make the actions?
>> Brian Holt: Like this stuff right here?
[SOUND] This, the response in
the error typings are coming
from the axios typings from flow typed.
So that's why we don't have to type this.
It knows that there's
a response to that data.
You can do it explicitly if you needed
to but I don't think you need to.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, there's nothing that
you need to do with this in particular
right now.
>> Brian Holt: And addAPIData, we already
told APIData's gonna be a show, and
that's fine.
>> Speaker 2: Does something
like immutable.js help
with the mutability of state?
>> Brian Holt: For sure, immutable.js and
there's also the other one that I
can't think of off the top of my head.
There's a couple of libraries that
handle immutability with JavaScript.
Immutability just makes things
a little bit safer, right?
That you can't directly modify things,
and it also allows for
really fast checking for things like,
is this the same object as thing?
No, cool, they're not equal anymore.
And there's no sort of deep nesting that
you need to check, that definitely helps.
My problem with immutable.js and
why I don't use it and
why I don't teach it is it's a pretty
large library, and yeah, so I don't.
The value that it gives my
developer experience does not
match how big the library is.
The last that I checked, I think it
was like 50 kilobytes, which is for
me kind of a non-starter.
I think it's bigger than react,
which is a problem.
[LAUGH] So it is cool,
there are reasons to use it.
I've just not so far chosen to use it.
To be honest with you, a lot of that same
similar type of benefits that a mutable
is gonna gain you, you're gonna get from
having typings with your language, right?
Cuz it's gonna catch
some similar problems,
like hey you're modifying this and
probably should be modifying that.
So, a type system can help catch
similar bugs, not totally the same.
And immutable particular cases
we'll have some speed benefits,
just by checking high level, shallow
checking is the same object as this.
But so far I just haven't felt
the need to use, personally.
>> Speaker 3: And a few people
are commenting that they use react
set state for UI state, and
then redux for application state.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, totally,
we talked about that yesterday too.
>> Brian Holt: But I agree,
that's a good thing to do.